
Some examples of models available on Hugging Face

	ASR - Automatic speech recognition (speech-to-text)

	TTS - Text to speech

Model Card - is like a README

Back of the envelope calculation to determine memory requirements for a model

	Search for pytorch_model.bin and multiply by 1.2, i.e., 20% more

	This will be the memory requirements for you to run this model on a machine of your choice

	Why paging doesn't save us

		The issue isn't that paging can't work - it's that neural network inference has terrible memory access patterns for paging:

		- Non-sequential access: During a forward pass, you're accessing weights across many layers, attention heads, and embedding dimensions. This isn't a linear scan - it's scattered reads across the entire model.
		- Working set size: Unlike many programs where you only need a small "hot" portion of data, transformer inference touches a huge fraction of weights on every single token generation. Your working set is essentially the whole model.
		- Latency multiplication: If generating one token requires 100 page faults, and each page fault costs ~10ms (SSD) or ~10μs (NVMe), you're looking at seconds per token. That's unusable for interactive inference.
		- The attention problem: Self-attention over long contexts means you're reading/writing the KV cache constantly. If that's being paged in and out, you're thrashing on every attention computation.

"transformers" library is the core library of huggingface

While working with audio samples, ensure that you are using a model which is trained on the same sampling frequency as your dataset, otherwise you will not get correct results

If it's spatial audio (stereo) you need to convert it to regular (mono) audio, because transformers cannot yet understand spatial data due to lack of data

In classification you have one correct label, in ASR you have one correct transcription for a given utterance, however, for TTS, since we are converting from one-to-many, i.e., each word can be said in different ways, it's a challenging problem

Object Detection is classification + localization. Object Detection can recognize multiple objects in a given image and that is why it has to do localization as well

Image Segmentation: Users will pass 2d points on an image and the model will output mask of the object which contains the 2d point

HuggingFace Hub: A place to host your models

Whenever we download a hugging-face model we get:

	model/
	├── config.json
	├── model-00001-of-00004.safetensors
	├── model-00002-of-00004.safetensors
	├── tokenizer.json
	├── tokenizer_config.json
	└── generation_config.json

	config.json describes the architecture:

	{
	"model_type": "llama",
	"hidden_size": 4096,
	"num_hidden_layers": 32,
	"num_attention_heads": 32,
	"vocab_size": 128256
	}

to use it, we do:

	model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained("meta-llama/Llama-...")

internally the following happens:

	1. Read config
	2. Select Llama architecture implementation
	3. Construct layers
	4. Load weight tensors
	5. Move tensors to CPU/GPU
	6. Initialize inference runtime

If you do this in python, then pytorch spins up a local process and runs the inference on locally available GPU.

